Quick Resume
Activate "Quick Resume" to continue playing your games from where you left off. With Quick Resume enabled, the system automatically saves your progress when you close a game and loads it when you start the game again.
Please note that certain systems, like DOS, PS2, PS3, PSVita, and Switch, do not currently support this feature.

Rewind
When "Rewind" is turned on, hold HOTKEY + L2 to rewind your gameplay, allowing you to alter your destiny. Keep in mind that activating this feature might cause slowdowns on some systems.
Note: "Rewind" is not supported on certain systems, including DOS, PS2, PS3, PSVita, and Switch. 

Quit Confirmation
Activate "Quit Confirmation" to prevent accidental exits. This feature prompts you before quitting a game, ensuring you don't lose progress unintentionally.

Cheats
Unlock extra fun with "Cheats." Enable cheat codes to gain advantages to simplify your gaming experience.

Borders
Enable or disable the drawing of borders around the game.
Note: this will disable the "Widescreen option".

Wide Screen
If enabled it widens the display, providing a more expansive gaming experience on supported systems.
Note: this will disable the "Borders option".

Shaders
When turned on, "Shaders" displays the game just like it appeared on the original console's screen.

Mods
Enable or disable the loading of the installed mods.

TATE Mode
Turn on "TATE Mode" for games that support vertical screen orientation. This feature allows you to enjoy selected titles in portrait mode, mimicking the arcade experience.
"Tate" (縦) means "vertical" in Japanese.

Steam: Controller Templates
Install the RetroDECK controller templates fror Steam. Once installed they will be automatically updated when an update is available.
The controller templates will enable hotkeys and raidal menu (radial menu is currently available on Steam Deck trackpad only).
Check the wiki for further details.

Button Layout
Select the desired button layout:
Classic: A, B X and Y are in the Steam Deck/Xbox layout.
Nintendo: A and B got their function inverted, same for X and Y like in the Nintendo controllers.

Hotkey Activation Sound
When this option is enabled you will hear a sound when the HOTKEY button is pressed.

[scan]
PlayStation 3 Games <- remove

ScummVM Games
Generate the entries of ScummVM games to adhere to the RetroDECK/ES-DE standard.
More on this in the wiki.

Multi-file Structure
Group the multi disc or multi file games as a single game entry on the games list.
More on this in the wiki.

3DS Game Decrypter
Decrypt your 3DS games.
Note: you should provide the keys file, more on this in the wiki.

BIOS
Check which BIOS files are recognized by RetroDECK and which ones are missing.

Open Emulator...
Open an emulator to manually tweak the configurations.
WARNING: this can breaking for the less expert users, you can always reset them by going to Troubleshoot > Reset menu.

Install RetroDECK Steam Grids <- rename to Add RetroDECK to Steam

Show Favorites as Steam Games
If this option is enabled the game marked as favorites will be added to Steam, when disabled they will be removed.
NOTE: the RetroDECK controller layout is not automatically applied to the single game entries.

USB Transfer Tool
Backup User Data
Compress Games
Move User Files

Retro Aechievements
Advanced
Hardcore Mode
Show Throphies
Login

Netplay ID
Address
Connect <- this is wrong probably, should be a toggle on Netplay ID?

Saves Sync
Start FTP Server <- Rename to SFTP

Check Connection
Show Logs

[reset]
Single Emulator...
All Emulators
Full RetroDECK Reset

Update Notification
Show Easter Eggs <- rename in Seasonal Loading Screen
Multi-User Mode (off, steam users, custom users) rename to retrodeck users
Menu Music

[about]
Website
Version History
Wiki
Credits
Donate
Reach Us
Licenses